# Working with Properties

<!-- TOC -->

- [1. How to Use Properties](#1-how-to-use-properties)
  - [1.1. expand property value](#11-expand-property-value)
  - [1.2. property undefined](#12-property-undefined)
- [2. Using Built-in Properties](#2-using-built-in-properties)
  - [2.1. Accessing Ant Built-in Properties](#21-accessing-ant-built-in-properties)
  - [2.2. Accessing Java System Properties](#22-accessing-java-system-properties)
- [3. Setting Properties in the Build File](#3-setting-properties-in-the-build-file)
  - [3.1. Using a Name-Value Pair](#31-using-a-name-value-pair)
  - [3.2. Using a File Location](#32-using-a-file-location)
  - [3.3. Using a Reference](#33-using-a-reference)
  - [3.4. Accessing Environment Variables](#34-accessing-environment-variables)
- [4. Setting Properties in Property Files](#4-setting-properties-in-property-files)
  - [4.1. Writing a Property File](#41-writing-a-property-file)
  - [4.2. Loading Properties from a Local File](#42-loading-properties-from-a-local-file)
- [5. Setting Properties at the Command Line](#5-setting-properties-at-the-command-line)
- [6. Display All Properties](#6-display-all-properties)
- [7. Feature](#7-feature)
  - [7.1. immutable](#71-immutable)

<!-- /TOC -->

**Ant tasks** use **Ant properties** to set **attribute values** at run time, which means the values of those attributes are not hard-coded.<sub>注：not hard-coded就意味着可以适应多种不同的情况，而hard-coded则可能只适应一种情况</sub>

Ant **properties** can be set in **tasks** or on the **command line**, and can both control the build process and configure it.<sub>注：设置properties的两个地方，一个是buildfile内，一个是command line</sub>

## 1. How to Use Properties

### 1.1. expand property value

Properties are key-value pairs where Apache Ant tries to expand `${key}` to value at run time.

For example, to examine the built-in properties, we can use the `<echo>` task:

```xml
<target name="echo">
    <echo message="ant.file = ${ant.file}"/>
    <echo message="ant.home = ${ant.home}"/>
    <echo message="ant.java.version = ${ant.java.version}"/>
    <echo>basedir = ${basedir}</echo>
</target>
```

### 1.2. property undefined

```xml
<echo>host=${host}</echo>
```

If the property is defined, the `${host}` is replaced with its value; if it isn’t, it stays as is.

## 2. Using Built-in Properties

### 2.1. Accessing Ant Built-in Properties

Ant provides various **built-in properties**, properties that the runtime sets for you.

与Ant软件相关的：

- `ant.java.version`: the JVM version Ant detected; currently it can hold the values 9, 1.8, 1.7, 1.6, 1.5, 1.4, 1.3 and 1.2.
- `ant.version`: the version of Ant
- `ant.home`: home directory of Ant
- `ant.library.dir`: the directory that has been used to load Ant's jars from. In most cases this is `ANT_HOME/lib`.
- `ant.core.lib`: the absolute path of the `ant.jar` file.

```xml
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<project name="HelloWorld" default="print" basedir=".">
    <target name="print">
        <echo message="ant.java.version = ${ant.java.version}"/>
        <echo message="     ant.version = ${ant.version}"/>
        <echo message="        ant.home = ${ant.home}"/>
        <echo message=" ant.library.dir = ${ant.library.dir}"/>
        <echo message="    ant.core.lib = ${ant.core.lib}"/>
    </target>
</project>
```

与项目文件相关的：

- `ant.file`: the absolute path of the buildfile.
- `ant.project.name`: the name of the project that is currently executing; it is set in the `name` attribute of `<project>`.
- `ant.project.default-target`: the name of the currently executing project's default target; it is set via the `default` attribute of `<project>`.
- `basedir`: the absolute path of the project's basedir (as set with the `basedir` attribute of `<project>`).

```xml
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<project name="HelloWorld" default="print" basedir=".">
    <target name="print">
        <echo message="                  ant.file = ${ant.file}"/>
        <echo message="          ant.project.name = ${ant.project.name}"/>
        <echo message="ant.project.default-target = ${ant.project.default-target}"/>
        <echo message="                   basedir = ${basedir}"/>
    </target>
</project>
```

与运行时输入的target参数相关：

- `ant.project.invoked-targets`: a comma-separated list of the targets that have been specified (on the command line, inside of an IDE, by an `<ant>` task, etc...) when invoking the current project. This property is set properly when the first target is executed. If you use it in the implicit target (directly under the `<project>` tag) the list will be empty if no target has been specified while it will contain the project's `default` target in this case for tasks nested into targets.

```xml
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<project name="HelloWorld" default="secondtarget" basedir=".">

    <echo message="ant.project.invoked-targets = ${ant.project.invoked-targets}"/>

    <target name="firsttarget">
        <echo message="first target"/>
    </target>
    <target name="secondtarget">
        <echo message="second target"/>
    </target>
</project>
```

### 2.2. Accessing Java System Properties

Ant also gives you access to the Java system properties as if you had called `java.lang.System.getProperties()`. This can, for example, allow you to build platform-specific paths and directory hierarchies.

Building a Platform-Specific Path

```xml
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<project name="HelloWorld" default="print" basedir=".">

<target name="print">
    <echo message="File: ${basedir}${file.separator}build.xml"/>
    <echo message="Path: ${basedir}${file.separator}build.xml${path.separator}${basedir}${file.separator}build.properties"/>
</target>

</project>
```

```xml
<echo message="user.name = ${user.name}"/>
<echo message="user.home = ${user.home}"/>
<echo message="java.home = ${java.home}"/>
```

**Being able to read properties is only half the problem. How do you set them?**

## 3. Setting Properties in the Build File

The first method of providing custom properties is with `<property>` elements in an Ant build file. Unlike the `<project>` and `<target>` elements, the `<property>` element is defined as **a task**. This means you can include `<property>` elements inside **a target** so that properties can be set conditionally, depending on certain conditions or depending on which target has been selected.<sub>注：第一种情况，可以在target内设置property</sub>

You can also set properties at the beginning of a build file so that they apply to the entire build. This means you can set important constant values in a central location so that they are easy to find and change, should the project change. You should remember that properties set inside a target override any properties set at the project level.<sub>注：第二种情况，可以在project开头的部分设置property</sub>

### 3.1. Using a Name-Value Pair

The simplest and most obvious use of the `<property>` task is to set a property using a name-value pair.

Setting a Property with a Name-Value Pair

```xml
<target name="properties.custom">
    <property name="build.no" value="1.1"/>
    <echo message="Build no. = ${build.no}"/>
</target>
```

A common action in a build file is selecting one of two choices, such as whether to compile debug information into the `.class` files. Development releases need this, while production builds may opt to omit it. This choice can be managed through a property.

We can define a property named `build.debug` and set its value to `true`.

```xml
<property name="build.debug" value="true"/>
```

This property can be passed to the `debug` attribute in a `<javac>` task:

```xml
<javac srcdir="src" debug="${build.debug}"/>
```

The `<property name="key" value="xyz">` assignment is the easiest way to set a property in the build file, and it’s ideal for simple values. However, it isn’t the best way to set filenames or paths, where the `location` attribute is preferable.

### 3.2. Using a File Location

The `name` property has two other potential partners you can use to set a property. The first is `location`, which you can use to set the value of a property to **the location of a file**.<sub>注：第二个属性location</sub>

If you supply **a relative path**, Ant will expand the path to make it **absolute** and then store it as the value of the property. If you provide **an absolute name**, Ant will store it as is, though with the path separators adjusted for the platform as appropriate.<sub>注：相对路径-->绝对路径；绝对路径-->保持不变。</sub>

Setting a Property to a Filename Using a Relative Path

```xml
<target name="properties.custom">
    <property name="project.dtd" location="project.dtd"/>
    <echo message="Location of project.dtd: ${project.dtd}"/>
</target>
```

The `location` attribute of the `<property>` task converts a **relative path** into an **absolute location** and converts **directory separators** to that of the target platform. Build file authors can choose between forward slashes (`/`) or backslashes (`\`) based on personal preference:

```xml
<property name="release.dir" location="../release" />
```

This resolved path can be passed down to native programs or Java code, as it’s now absolute and platform-specific. The directory against which relative paths are resolved is **the base directory of the project**, which is typically the directory where `build.xml` resides. The built-in property `basedir` is set to this directory.

File locations are always set using `<property name="abc" location="xyz">`. You can often get away with using the `value` attribute instead; many build files do.<sub>注：如果想表达文件位置，则使用`<property>`的location属性，而不是value属性</sub>

### 3.3. Using a Reference

The second partner to `name` is `refid`, which is a reference to **an object** defined elsewhere in the file. The reference allows you to reuse chunks of the build file (termed **an object** in this case) so that common classpaths and paths can be shared among targets.<sub>注：第三个属性refid</sub>

**Many tasks** have a `refid` attribute, and they all perform similar tasks. In the case of the `<property>` task, the `refid` attribute assigns **the value of the referenced object** to the property named with the `name` attribute. There is no point in assigning anything other than a pathlike structure in this case because you won’t be able to use any other kind of reference once it has been stored in the property.

Ant Converts a String into the Appropriate Path

```xml
<target name="properties.custom">
    <!-- Windows users should leave this line uncommented -->
    <property name="build.path" value="${basedir}/build.xml:${basedir}/build.properties"/>

    <!-- Unix users should remove the above line and uncomment the below line -->
    <!--
    <property name="build.path" value="${basedir}\build.xml;${basedir}\build.properties"/>
    -->

    <path id="build.path.id">
        <pathelement path="${build.path}"/>
    </path>

    <property name="build.path.property" refid="build.path.id"/>

    <!-- The converted string that Ant uses as a path -->
    <echo message="Converted string: ${build.path.property}"/>
    <!-- The unconverted string, which Ant treats as a string -->
    <echo message="Path: ${build.path}"/>
</target>
```

### 3.4. Accessing Environment Variables

The final technique available to you when setting properties in the build file is using the `environment` attribute of the `<property>` element.<sub>注：第4个属性environment</sub>

The `environment` attribute gives you access to **the operating system’s environment variables** so that you can use them in your build process.<sub>注：这个属性的作用是使用OS的环境变量</sub>

The value you set in the `environment` attribute is the **prefix** you must use when referencing an environment variable in the build file. So, if you set the value of `environment` to `env`, you would reference the system classpath using `${env.CLASSPATH}`.<sub>注：“值”作为“前缀”</sub>

Gaining Access to the System’s Environment Variables

```xml
<target name="test-env-property">
    <property environment="env"/>
    <echo message="JAVA_Home: ${env.JAVA_HOME}"/>
    <echo message=" ANT_HOME: ${env.ANT_HOME}"/>
</target>
```

Ant is **case-sensitive** in this case, even if the host operating system is not. This gives us properties like `env.PATH`, or, on Windows NT platforms, `env.Path`. <sub>注：对于“字母大小写”敏感</sub>

## 4. Setting Properties in Property Files

The most common technique is for developers and users to make a copy of the master properties file (`build.properties.default`), name it `build.properties`, and place it in the base directory. You must then make sure you import the `build.properties` file before the `build.properties.default` file. This means that local settings override the defaults. Another technique is to encourage developers and users to copy the `build.properties` file to their “home” directory and use the `${user.home}` system property to reference its new location. This file then takes precedence over the default file.

You can of course set all your properties in a properties file if you want to enforce absolute centralization.

### 4.1. Writing a Property File

Ant property files must conform to the same format as Java property files, as used by the `java.util.Properties` class. This means all characters must be in `ISO 8859-1` format, and if they are not, you can use the `native2ascii` tool that comes with the Java distribution to convert the file.

Each property is represented by a name-value pair, separated with an equals sign, and comments are delimited with a hash character.

The Basic Syntax of a Properties File

```properties
# A comment is indicated by a hash mark
property.name=property.value
```

You can load a property file and, thus, the properties it contains in three ways: **from a local file using a filename**, **from a URL**, and **from a file located on Ant’s classpath**.

One particularly nice feature of Ant property files is **in-file property expansion**. This feature means you can use properties set in a file to build the values of other properties set in that file. You can use this technique to your advantage in a number of situations, including building classpaths from third-party JARs and setting server names.

In-File Property Expansion in a Property File

```properties
server.name=localhost
server.port=8080
server.scheme=http
server.manager.name=manager

server.url=${server.scheme}://${server.name}:${server.port}/${server.manager.name}/

j2ee.jar=${env.J2EE_HOME}/lib/j2ee.jar
jsp.jar=${env.CATALINA_HOME}/common/lib/jsp-api.jar
servlet.jar=${env.CATALINA_HOME}/common/lib/servlet-api.jar
mysql.jar=${env.CATALINA_HOME}/common/lib/mysql.jar

build.classpath=${mysql.jar};${j2ee.jar};${jsp.jar};${servlet.jar}
```

### 4.2. Loading Properties from a Local File

If you want to use a local property file, then you must specify its location with the `file` attribute of the `<property>` task.<sub>注：第5个属性file</sub>

Loading a Local Property File

```xml
<target name="properties.localfile">
    <property file="build.properties"/>

    <path id="build.classpath.id">
        <pathelement path="${build.classpath}"/>
    </path>

    <property name="build.classpath.property" refid="build.classpath.id"/>

    <echo message="Server URL: ${server.url}"/>
    <echo message="Build classpath: ${build.classpath}"/>
    <echo message="Build classpath converted: ${build.classpath.property}"/>
</target>
```

We can create a file named `build.properties` in the root directory of our project, alongside the build file. This file has a comment and some properties:

```properties
#properties for the build
build.debug=false
```

Ant’s `<property>` task will load the file in the file attribute:

```xml
<property file="build.properties"/>
```

Property values in the properties file are expanded during the load. Consider a properties file containing these lines:

```properties
build.dir=build
output.dir=${build.dir}/output
```

When loaded, `output.dir` will have the value `build/output`.

All properties loaded from a properties file are loaded as **simple string values**, as if they were set by the `<property value>` operation. To turn them into **absolute values**, the build file would have to reassign them.

```xml
<property name="output.dir.absolute" location="${output.dir}"/>
```

This would resolve it to a path such as `/home/erik/ch02/build/output`.

There are **two other issues** with **property file** loading that developers need to know. **One** is that to use a **backslash** in the file, it must **be repeated twice**:

```txt
release.dir=..\\release
```

This is because the file is loaded using the `java.util.Properties` class, which requires this.

**The other quirk** is that if you **misspell the name of the file**, with something such as `<property file="build.propertoes"/>` , Ant doesn’t stop the build. Indeed, it doesn’t even warn of a problem, except when you run Ant in verbose (`-v`) mode. This seems like a bug, but it’s actually deliberate. It lets you offer the option to control the build, without making it mandatory. To understand how to do that, you need to understand Ant’s unusual property assignment model.

## 5. Setting Properties at the Command Line

The final way to set properties is at the command line. You can specify individual properties using the `-Dproperty=value` syntax, or you can load the properties from a property file using the `-propertyfile` option. As noted at the beginning of the chapter, the `-Dproperty=value` syntax takes precedence. In fact, `-Dproperty=value` takes precedence over all property values in the build. For example, if you wanted to override the server name because the main development server is down, you can run the following:

```bash
ant -Dserver.name=remotehost properties.localfile
```

## 6. Display All Properties

If you’re curious about the set of properties at any point in a build file, the `<echoproperties>` task can list the current set to the console or to a file. On its own, this task will list all properties in the order they’re stored in the hashtable:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<project name="HelloWorld" default="echoall" basedir=".">
    <!-- 这里是自定义的属性 -->
    <property name="zzz.yyy.xxx" value="xyz"/>
    <target name="echoall">
        <echoproperties />
    </target>
</project>
```

The XML output is sorted, which makes it easy to browse. You could also **save the list to a file** to compare against a previous version.

```xml
<target name="echoxml">
    <echoproperties format="xml" destfile="current-properties.xml" />
</target>
```

Listing properties or saving them to a file is useful while learning about properties and for diagnostics. We often have a diagnostics target that lists the current set of properties.

## 7. Feature

### 7.1. immutable

Unlike Java variables, **Ant properties** are **immutable**: you cannot change them. The first task, project, or person to set a property fixes it for that build. This rule is the opposite of most languages, but it’s a rule that lets you control build files from the outside, from tools such as IDEs, or from automated build systems. It’s also the key to letting different users customize a build file to work on their system, without editing the build file itself. Simply by defining the appropriate property on the command line, you can change the behavior of your own or someone else’s build file. Inside the build file, properties let you define a piece of information once and share it across many tasks. This makes maintenance easier and reduces errors.
