# Other Task Property

<!-- TOC -->

- [1. Checking for the availability of files: `<available>`](#1-checking-for-the-availability-of-files-available)
  - [1.1. a particular class in a classpath](#11-a-particular-class-in-a-classpath)
  - [1.2. files or directories](#12-files-or-directories)
  - [1.3. Java resource](#13-java-resource)
- [2. Testing conditions with `<condition>`](#2-testing-conditions-with-condition)
  - [socket](#socket)

<!-- /TOC -->

Many tasks set properties in the course of their work; it’s one of the main ways of passing data between tasks. Two useful tasks are `<available>` and `<condition>`, which **set a property if a test is successful**, and, **on failure, leave it unset**.

## 1. Checking for the availability of files: `<available>`

The `<available>` task can check for the existence of **a Java class or resource in a classpath** or for the existence of **a file or directory in the file system**.

### 1.1. a particular class in a classpath

One use of `<available>` is to check for **a particular class in a classpath**. This could let Ant skip targets when a prerequisite is missing. The task can look for a class in Ant’s own classpath or another supplied path:

```xml
<available property="junit.present" classname="junit.framework.TestCase" />
<echo message="junit.present = ${junit.present}"/>
```

If the `junit.framework.TestCase` class is found, `junit.present` is set to `true`. If it is absent, the property isn’t touched and remains undefined.

### 1.2. files or directories

The `<available>` task can also look for files or directories:

```xml
<available property="lib.properties.present"
    file="${lib.dir}/lib.properties"
    type="file"/>
```

The `file` attribute specifies the file or directory to locate. The optional `type` attribute can require the file to be of a specific type—either a `file` or `dir` for file and directory, respectively.

### 1.3. Java resource

The final availability check is for **a Java resource**, which is any file that can be found on the classpath. You can check for the availability of configuration files:

```xml
<available property="resource.exists" resource="log4j.properties" />
```

You can even look for a class without loading it, by giving the path to the implementation class:

```xml
<available property="junit.found" resource="junit/framework/TestCase.class" />
```

This is equivalent to the classname probe we’ve already seen, except the `.class` file itself must be requested, and **package separators** replaced with **forward slashes**.

The `<available>` task is essentially one of Ant’s many conditions. It’s an Ant task, but it also can be nested inside the `<condition>` task. Most other conditions only work inside an Ant task that supports them. There are lots of other conditions, which can be used to set properties or control other aspects of a build.

## 2. Testing conditions with `<condition>`

Most of Ant’s tests are grouped under the `<condition>` task, which will set a named property if a nested condition holds true. A **complex condition** can be built up using the **logical operators** `<and>`, `<or>`, `<xor>`, and `<not>`.

Here’s a test that sets the property `os` to the value "windows" if the underlying OS is either of the two Windows platforms, or "other" if it is anything else:

```xml
<condition property="os"
    value="windows"
    else="other">
    <or>
        <os family="win9x" />
        <os family="winnt" />
    </or>
</condition>
```

### socket

```xml
<property name="server.port" value="8080" />
<fail message="no server at ${server.port}" >
    <condition>
        <not>
            <socket port="${server.port}" server="127.0.0.1"/>
        </not>
    </condition>
</fail>
```

We’ve put a condition inside the `<fail>` task, a task that halts the build with an error message if its nested `<condition>` is true. The test tells Ant to halt the build unless there’s something listening for inbound TCP connections on port `8080` on the local machine. We use the property `server.port` to hold the port to test; anyone who runs the server on a different port can override this property and the test will adapt.



