# CONTROLLING ANT WITH PROPERTIES

There are three main ways in which properties can help control builds.

- (1) Conditional target execution
- (2) Conditional build failure
- (3) Conditional patternset inclusion/exclusion

In all the techniques, **the value of a property is usually unimportant**. Most of Ant’s conditional execution assumes that a property **being set** equals `true` and **unset** equals `false`. As tasks like `<condition>` and `<available>` set properties when true, this matches up with their output.

## Conditional target execution

All Ant targets can be made conditional, so they execute only if a property is set or unset. This is done by setting their `if` and/or `unless` attributes to **the name of the property**—that is, a string such as property and not `${property}`<sub>注意：这里是容易出错的地方</sub>. It’s easy to get this wrong, and Ant does nothing to warn you that your conditions are being ignored.

Here’s how to use the `if` attribute to conditionally include source code in a JAR file:

```xml
<target name="init">
    <mkdir dir="build/classes"/>
    <mkdir dir="dist"/>
</target>

<target name="compile" depends="init">
    <javac srcdir="src" destdir="build/classes"/>
</target>

<target name="copysource" depends="init" if="copy.source">
    <copy todir="build/classes">
    <fileset dir="src"/>
</copy>
</target>

<target name="jar" depends="compile,copysource">
    <jar basedir="build/classes" jarfile="dist/our.jar">
</target>
```

**Each target’s conditions are evaluated** just prior to the **target’s execution**. This allows dependent targets to control their successors through properties. In this little demonstration, the `copysource` target could be enabled by setting `copy.source`. The value is irrelevant—even “`false`” would enable it. This could be done from the command line:

```xml
ant -Dcopy.source=true jar
```

Users of conditional targets often get burned by **three mistakes**. One is by using an expression `if="${property}"` rather than just the property name: `if="property"`. The next is that **a condition is met if a property is defined; its value is irrelevant**. Finally, some people expect that if a target’s condition isn’t met, then its dependencies should not execute. This isn’t the case. **All proceeding targets get processed** before **the test is looked at**.

三个常见错误：

- （1） 正确的写法：`if="property"`；错误写法：`if="${property}"`
- （2） 判断的条件：只与“property是否存在”有关系，而与“property的值”没有关系
- （3） 如果一个target有depends属性和if属性，它会先执行depends属性的内容，再来判断if的内容。

## Conditional build failure

We’ve already used `<fail>` to halt the build depending upon a nested `<condition>`. Ant also has `if` and `unless` attributes to block the build when a property is defined or undefined. Here we fail if two needed libraries are absent:

```xml
<target name="init">
    <condition property="all.dependencies.present">
        <available classname="junit.framework.TestCase" />
    </condition>

    <fail message="Missing dependencies" unless="all.dependencies.present"/>
</target>
```

The `if/unless` attributes used to be the only way to make failure conditional other than placing it in a **conditional target**<sub>注：这是指第一部分内容</sub>. You may encounter it in existing projects, although a nested `<condition>` is usually easier to use.

## Conditional patternset inclusion/exclusion

Patternsets have an `if` and `unless` property on their `<include>` and `<exclude>` elements. This is a useful feature for including or excluding files from compilation depending on the existence of libraries.

```xml
<javac srcdir="src" destdir="${build.dir}/classes"
    <exclude name="org/example/antbook/junit/*.java" unless="junit.present" />
</javac>
```

Overall, conditional patternsets, targets, and tasks are among the main ways that properties can configure a build, skipping files or tasks when not needed.

