# PATHS

<!-- TOC -->

- [1. one path](#1-one-path)
  - [1.1. nested element](#11-nested-element)
  - [1.2. attribute](#12-attribute)
- [2. multiple pathes](#2-multiple-pathes)
- [3. path separator, directory separator, absolute location](#3-path-separator-directory-separator-absolute-location)
- [4. How to use a path](#4-how-to-use-a-path)
  - [4.1. standalone path](#41-standalone-path)
  - [4.2. inline path](#42-inline-path)

<!-- /TOC -->

A **path**, sometimes called a **path-like structure** in Ant’s documentation, is an ordered list of elements, where each element can be **a file** or **a directory**<sub>注：代表含义</sub>. It describes **paths** such as the Java `CLASSPATH` , or the `PATH` environment variable of Unix and Windows<sub>注：使用场景</sub>. It may have a **task-specific name**, such as `<classpath>`, or it may just have the simple name `<path>`.<sub>注：具体存在的形式</sub>

## 1. one path

### 1.1. nested element

An example of a path definition is:

```xml
<path>
    <pathelement location="lib/junit.jar"/>
</path>
```

This definition contains one element, whose `location` attribute can specify **a single file** or **directory**.

You can also extend a path with another path, using `path` instead of `location`:

```xml
<path>
    <pathelement path="build/classes;lib/junit.jar"/>
</path>
```

### 1.2. attribute

If a path structure consists of only a single `path` or `location`, it can be specified using a shortcut form as in

```xml
<path location="lib/junit.jar"/>
```

or with multiple files separated by either the `:` or `;` path separator:

```xml
<path path="build/classes:lib/junit.jar"/>
```

## 2. multiple pathes

Paths can include a set of files:

```xml
<path>
    <fileset dir="lib">
        <include name="*.jar"/>
    </fileset>
</path>
```

This set of files creates a path containing all JAR files in the `lib` directory. This is a path built from a `<fileset>`.

Ant makes no order guarantees within a `<fileset>`. Each element in a `path` is ordered from the top and down so that all files within a `fileset` would be grouped together in a path. However, the order within that `fileset` isn’t guaranteed. The result in this example is that the `path` would contain all the JAR files, but the order cannot be predicted.


`<path>`下面仍然可以嵌套`<path>`

```xml
<path id="compile.classpath">
    <fileset dir="lib">
        <include name="*.jar"/>
    </fileset>
</path>

<path id="test.classpath">
    <path refid="compile.classpath"/>
    <pathelement location="${build.dir}/classes"/>
    <pathelement location="${build.dir}/test/classes"/>
</path>
```


## 3. path separator, directory separator, absolute location

我的总结

- （1） 使用path的时候，会将“相对路径”转换成“绝对路径”
- （2） 转换之前，“绝对路径”和“操作系统”没有关系，不用考虑directory separator和path separator。
- （3） 转换之后，“绝对路径”和“操作系统”紧密相关的，也是体现在那两个方面，第一个方面就是directory separator，第二个方面就是path separator。

This `path` attribute separates its parameters into individual elements, using either a semicolon (`;`) or colon (`:`) to split them. There’s some special handling for a Windows-style `c:\winnt;` this will be treated as a single directory, and not `c` and `winnt`. Directories can be separated by either a forward-slash (`/`) or a back-slash (`\`), regardless of operating system; a build file shouldn’t have to care what system it runs on.

The `<path>` datatype resolves all relative items to their absolute paths and converts all file and path separators to the local platform, and so the result on Linux platform is

```txt
[echo] path = /home/ant/ch03/some.jar:/home/ant/ch03/another.jar
```

On Windows, the result would be different, something like

```txt
[echo] path = C:\ch03\some.jar;C:\ch03\another.jar
```

The path elements have been converted to the local form, resolved to **absolute locations**, and separated by the current `${path.separator}` value.



## 4. How to use a path

There are **two ways** to use a path.

### 4.1. standalone path

A standalone path declaration can be given a name via its `id` attribute. This name has to be unique across all Ant datatypes given ID values; this is **a separate namespace** from **property** and **target** names.

```txt
这里要注意三个namespace：taget name, property name, id
```

```xml
<path location="lib/junit.jar" id="junit.path"/>
```

The name can be referenced whenever a path is needed:

```xml
<path refid="junit.path" />
```

The `refid` attribute references the defined path; **if no such path has been defined at that point in the build, Ant will fail with an error**.<sub>注：对比property，如果property name没有定义，只是取不到相应的property value，但并不会报错</sub>

### 4.2. inline path

The other way to use a path is **inline**, in any task that takes a nested element of the `path` type. These elements may not be called `path`. They may have **other names**, though the word `path` is usually in there. Our ongoing example, the `<javac>` task, has the elements `<classpath>`, `<sourcepath>`, `<bootclasspath>` and `<extdirs>`. The latter path element shows that not all path elements end in the word `path`—this is a special case for compatibility with the command-line version.

When using the task, we could declare two `<src>` tags to compile two separate directory trees of source code into a single output directory:

```xml
<javac destdir="build/classes">
    <src path="src"/>
    <src path="test"/>
</javac>
```
