# Fileset

<!-- TOC -->

- [1. root directory](#1-root-directory)
- [2. includes and excludes](#2-includes-and-excludes)
  - [2.1. atttribute](#21-atttribute)
  - [2.2. nested element](#22-nested-element)
- [3. case sensitive](#3-case-sensitive)
- [4. fileset resolution](#4-fileset-resolution)

<!-- /TOC -->

我总结Fileset的三个特点：

> Filesets represent a collection of files rooted from a specified directory.

- （1） 目录：位于一个“特定的目录”下的文件集合
- （2） 集合：Fileset是一个文件(File)的集合(Set)，它包含了一组文件。
- （3） 无序：它是一个集合，也意味着里面的元素是“无序”的
- （4） 过滤：可能通过某种过滤方式来取集合中的一部分元素，就是通过PatternSet和Selector。PatternSet是通过文件的路径名来进行过滤，而Selector是通过其他的方面进行过滤，例如文件的时间、占用存储空间的大小等方面。

A FileSet is a group of files. These files can be found in a directory tree starting in a base directory and are matched by patterns taken from a number of **PatternSets** and **Selectors**.

All rules must be satisfied before a file is considered part of a `fileset`, so when using **selectors** in conjunction with **patternsets**, the file must match the `include` patterns, must not match any `exclude` patterns, and the **selector** rules must test positively. If you don’t find the current selectors adequate, you can write a custom one in Java.

## 1. root directory

- `dir`: the root of the directory tree of this FileSet.

**By default**, a `<fileset>` specified with only a root directory will include **all the files in that entire directory tree**, including files in all subdirectories recursively.

Let’s copy files from one directory to another:

```xml
<copy todir="newweb">
    <fileset dir="web"/>
</copy>
```

In its current form, all files from the `web` directory are copied to the `newweb` directory.

## 2. includes and excludes

### 2.1. atttribute

- `includes`: comma- or space-separated list of patterns of files that must be included.
- `excludes`: comma- or space-separated list of patterns of files that must be excluded.

### 2.2. nested element

Groups all files in directory `${server.src}` that are Java source files and don't have the text `Test` in their name.

```xml
<fileset dir="${server.src}" casesensitive="yes">
  <include name="**/*.java"/>
  <exclude name="**/*Test*"/>
</fileset>
```

## 3. case sensitive

- `casesensitive`: Must the include and exclude patterns be treated in a case sensitive way?

## 4. fileset resolution

Another thing to know is that **`filesets` resolve their files when the declaration is first evaluated**. This may not be when it’s declared, but when it’s first used. **Once resolved, the set is never updated**. This is important to know when referring to a previously defined fileset, as new files and directories matching the patterns may have appeared between the resolution and reference; these new files do not appear in the fileset.
