# SELECTORS

<!-- TOC -->

- [1. Ant’s built-in selectors](#1-ants-built-in-selectors)
  - [1.1. present selector](#11-present-selector)
  - [1.2. contains selector](#12-contains-selector)
- [2. selector containers](#2-selector-containers)

<!-- /TOC -->

Filenames are a common way of selecting files for operations, but not always enough. Sometimes you want to delete out-of-date files or upload only changed files to a remote site. What if you want to delete files, leaving directories in their place? You can do all these things by refining the fileset with **selectors**.

Each **selector** is a test that’s applied to each file in the fileset (or other selector container). It narrows down the
selection of files in the fileset.

## 1. Ant’s built-in selectors

Any fileset can be restricted by these selectors to choose only those files that match the specific tests.

- `<filename>`: Works like a patternset `<include>` or `<exclude>` element to match files based on a pattern
- `<depth>`: Selects files based on a directory depth range
- `<size>`: Selects files that are less, equal to, or more than a specified size
- `<date>`: Selects files (and optionally directories) that have been last modified before, after, or on a specified date
- `<present>`: Selects files if they exist in another directory tree
- `<depend>`: Selects files that are newer than corresponding ones in another directory tree

文件内容

- `<contains>`: Selects files that contain a string
- `<containsregexp>`: Select files that contain a regular expression-described string
- `<different>`: Selects files that are different from those in another directory

类型

- `<type>`: Selects by type of file or directory
- `<modified>`: Calculates (and caches) checksums for files; selects those that have changed
- `<signedselector>`: Selects signed JAR files, optionally naming the signatory
- `<scriptselector>`: Inline script language containing a selection rule

### 1.1. present selector

To compare two directory trees and copy the files that exist in one tree but not in another, we use a combination of `<not>` and `<present>`:

```xml
<copy todir="newfiles" includeemptydirs="false">
    <fileset dir="web">
        <not>
            <present targetdir="currentfiles"/>
        </not>
    </fileset>
</copy>
```

This `<copy>` task will copy only the files from the `web` directory that don’t exist in the `currentfiles` directory.

### 1.2. contains selector

Using the `<contains>` selector, we choose only those files containing a certain string:

```xml
<copy todir="currentfiles" includeemptydirs="false">
    <fileset dir="web">
        <contains text="System"/>
    </fileset>
</copy>
```

Only the files containing the text “System” in the `web` directory are copied to the `currentfiles` directory. By default `<contains>` is case-sensitive, but it can be changed using `casesensitive="no"`.

## 2. selector containers

These selectors can be combined inside selector containers to provide grouping and logic. The containers are `<and>`, `<or>`, `<not>`, `<none>`, `<selector>`, and `<majority>`.

Containers may be nested inside containers, enabling complex selection logic.



