# REFERENCES

Every Ant datatype declaration can have **a unique identifier**, which can be used as a **reference**. A common use is with **paths**.

## path

We can give our compile classpath an `id` attribute of "compile.classpath" to give it a name that can be referenced:

```xml
<path id="compile.classpath">
    <fileset dir="lib">
        <include name="*.jar"/>
    </fileset>
</path>
```

To feed it into the `<javac>` task, we pass in a reference to the path:

```xml
<javac destdir="${build.classes.dir}" srcdir="src">
    <classpath refid="compile.classpath"/>
</javac>
```

This lets us share the classpath across tasks. The path can also be referenced in other datatype declarations, such as when the test classpath is set up:

```xml
<path id="test.classpath">
    <path refid="compile.classpath"/>
    <pathelement location="${build.dir}/classes"/>
    <pathelement location="${build.dir}/test/classes"/>
</path>
```

All Ant datatypes support the `refid` and `id` attributes. Anywhere a datatype is declared, it can have an `id` associated with it, which can then be used later. Normally referenced datatypes are defined outside any task, in a target that gets executed before the tasks that refer to the data. That includes the `<property>` task, oddly enough.

## Using references for nested patternsets

**Patternsets** provide a nice abstraction for file and directory name matching for use inside of filesets. Defining a patternset only once with an `id` allows it to be reused in any number of filesets. Nesting patternsets allows for patternset grouping. Here’s an example:

```xml
<patternset id="image.files" includes="**/*.gif,**/*.jpg"/>

<patternset id="binary.files">
    <exclude name="**/*.txt"/>
    <exclude name="**/*.xml"/>
    <patternset refid="image.files"/>
</patternset>

<echo level="verbose">
binary.files = ${toString:binary.files}
</echo>
```

The `binary.files` patternset excludes both `.txt` and `.xml` files, and the files included or excluded by the `image.files` patternset. In this case, `binary.files` will also include `.jpg` and `.gif` files. The string representation of a patternset is useful for debugging purposes, so defining a property using the patternset `refid` yields these results:

```xml
[echo]         binary.files = patternSet{ includes: [**/*.gif, **/*.jpg] excludes: [**/*.txt, **/*.xml] }
```

If you don’t know why an Ant build doesn’t do what you expect, print it in `<echo>`. If you echo at `level="verbose"`, then the message doesn’t appear except on a `-verbose` build. One of the things we like to print out at this level is our path of libraries, as the `<path>` datatype is the main way to set up the classpath for compiling and running code.

